# TASTE Requirement Engineering Widget

This repository contains a Requirement and Review Engineering widget implemented with Qt (C++) and including PySide6 bindings.

It provides the following features:

* Import and Export requirements in the ReqIf and Excel formats (templates provided)
* Load requirements into a Gitlab repository using the Gilab API
* Present lists of requirements to the end user as a Qt widget, allowing to edit, select, create new requirements and keep them in sync with the Gitlab server
* Built-in AI Virtual Assistant to review requirements: detect ambiguities, duplicates, compliance to standards, etc.
* Review widget allows to create and manage Issues in a Gitlab server.

  
The widget is integrated in the [TASTE](https://taste.tools) project by ESA (C++ IDE based on Qt Creator) as well as in [OpenGEODE](https://github.com/esa/opengeode). This allows to allocate requirements to model elements.

## C++

The C++ implementation is in the directory `tastewidgets`. It can be used by including this `CMakeLists.txt` in this directory.

## Python / PySide binding

The Python bindings are in the directory `pytastewidgets`. To build the binding, check out the `README.md` there.

## Version

The version is set in the file `VERSION` only. Cmake does read it there and configure the rest.

## Documentation

Developer documentation can be created, using the tool Doxygen. The HTML based output serves as documentation for C++ and for Python.

## data

The files in the /data directory should be copied into the user's ".local" directory which will be in their home directory.

### defaultSRS.xlsx

This is the empty template version of the excel SRS. It is used by the Requirements Widget when it needs to create a new Excel SRS Export file.
The default location for this file is the user's ".local" directory, but it's location, and name, can be changed by editing the "configRequirements.ini" file.
This template is also used by the Virtual Assistant interface to export the current requirements set to a temporary location (/var/tmp) that is referenced by the virtual assistant prompts generated for the ollama rest api.

### defaultSSS.xlsx

This is the empty template version of the excel SSS. It is used by the Requirements Widget when it needs to create a new Excel SSS Export file.
The default location for this file is the user's ".local" directory, but it's location, and name, can be changed by editing the "configRequirements.ini" file.

### configRequirements.ini

This file should also be placed in the user's .local directory, however if it is not present, it will be auto-generated by the Requirements Widget.

The default configuration is as follows:

[EXCEL_CONFIGURATION]
ExcelSRSTemplateFile=defaultSRS.xlsx
ExcelSSSTemplateFile=defaultSSS.xlsx
ExcelTempExcelSRSTemplateFilelatePath=/home/taste/.local

[VA_CONFIGURATION]
ConfigFilePath=data/default_config.json
QueryDefinitionsBaseDirectory=data
QueryDefinitionsFilePath=data/mbep_queries.json
VaRootPath=/home/taste/tool-inst/share/virtual-assistant
VenvPath=venv
Verbosity=debug

Excel Configuration

- ExcelSRSTemplateFile defines the file name for the Excel SRS Template file.
- ExcelSSSTemplateFile defines the file name for the Excel SSS Template file.
- ExcelTempExcelSRSTemplateFilelatePath defines the path to the directory containing the Excel Template files.

Virtual Assistant Configuration

- VaRootPath defines the path to the virtual assistant root directory.
- ConfigFilePath defines the relative path and filename of the json configuration file for the --config-path VA parameter.
- QueryDefinitionsBaseDirectory defines the relative path of the query definitions Base directory for the --query-definitions-base-directory VA parameter.
- QueryDefinitionsFilePath defines the relative path and filename of the json query definitions file for the --query-definitions-path VA parameter.
- VenvPath defines the relative path to the venv environment root directory
- Verbosity defines the VA --verbosity parameter.

The --requirements path is currently fixed in the Requirements Widget as "/var/tmp/tmpExcelModel.xlsx" as this is the file and path used by the Requirements Widget to export a temporary, all inclusive (SRS + SSS), requirements file, including any current edits, for reference by the virtual assistant queries. This file only appears while the virtual assistant is in operation.
